Combined personal website new (#4208)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/communication/personal-websites/personal-website-framework.md

# Frameworks

## What is a framework

In website development, a framework is a set of pre-written code, tools, and
libraries that help developers build and maintain websites more efficiently.
Frameworks provide a structured foundation, offering reusable code modules,
common design patterns, and guidelines, which help streamline the development
process and promote best practices. They essentially "frame" the development by
managing basic functionalities and allowing developers to focus on the unique
aspects of their projects rather than repetitive tasks.

## Benefits of using a framework

Frameworks provide several benefits in website development:

* **Code Reusability**: Common functions are built-in, which
reduces redundancy.
* **Efficiency**: They allow faster development by eliminating the need
to code every component from scratch.
* **Scalability**: Frameworks provide a solid structure that can grow with the
website.
* **Security**: Many frameworks come with built-in security features and
updates, which help mitigate vulnerabilities.

## Popular frameworks

> Below mentioned are some of the commonly used frameworks. These have been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we list some commonly used frameworks. They have been
```

divided into two categories depending upon whether person wants to create a
website using low-code or high-code options.

### No-Code/Low-Code frameworks

> * [GitHub (GH) profile](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/customizing-your-profile/about-your-profile)
>   * Use GH repository [beautify my GH](<https://github.com/rzashakeri/beautify-github-profile>), to customize your GH profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [GitHub profile](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/customizing-your-profile/about-your-profile)
  * The repository [`rzashakeri/beautify-github-profile`](https://github.com/rzashakeri/beautify-github-profile) has instructions and advice to customise your GitHub profile.
```

> * [Wordpress](https://wordpress.com/support/five-step-website-setup/)

Reviewer: I suppose this is _my_ opinion but I feel like _The Turing Way_ shouldn't promote Wordpress given the behaviour of [Automattic and the CEO](https://www.theregister.com/2025/01/14/wordpress_leader_matthew_mullenweg_exiles/)

Author: I have removed WordPress from the list of frameworks.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Ghost](https://ghost.org/resources/building/)

```

Ghost seems to be a popular FOSS CMS system.

> ### Pro-code/High-Code frameworks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### High-Code frameworks
```

* [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)
* [Blogdown](https://bookdown.org/yihui/blogdown/) (R)
* [Fast Html](https://fastht.ml/) (Python)
* [Quarto](https://quarto.org/docs/gallery/#websites) (R/Python/Julia)
* Pure HTML/CSS/Javascript

> * [Academic pages](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io)

Reviewer: I think it would be good to pick the static site generators out. Using something like Jekyll or Hugo is quite a different experience to using a dynamic webapp with a database.

Reviewer: Would also add [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) here.

Author: I have added sub-sections on **static site generator** and **dynamic site generator**. Also included [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/).

## Benefits of using a framework

Frameworks provide several benefits in website development:

* **Code Reusability**: Common functions are built-in, which
reduces redundancy.
* **Efficiency**: They allow faster development by eliminating the need
to code every component from scratch.
* **Scalability**: Frameworks provide a solid structure that can grow with the
website.
* **Security**: Many frameworks come with built-in security features and
updates, which help mitigate vulnerabilities.

## Popular frameworks

Here, we list some commonly used frameworks. They have been
divided into two categories depending upon whether person wants to create a
website using low-code or high-code options.

### No-Code/Low-Code frameworks

* [Ghost](https://ghost.org/resources/building/)
* [GitHub profile](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/customizing-your-profile/about-your-profile)
  * The repository [`rzashakeri/beautify-github-profile`](https://github.com/rzashakeri/beautify-github-profile) has instructions and advice to customise your GitHub profile.
* [Wix](https://learnxinyminutes.com/)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Squarespace](http://squarespace.com)

```
Would this work, as it's a website provider and not a coding framework?

Author: I think it should be included because it gives the user a website builder.

### High-Code frameworks

#### Static website generator

* [Academic pages](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io)
* [Blogdown](https://bookdown.org/yihui/blogdown/) (R)
* [Fast Html](https://fastht.ml/) (Python)
* [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)
* [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)

> * Pure HTML/CSS/Javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Pure HTML/CSS/Javascript](https://pure-css.github.io/start/)
```

> # Frameworks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(cm-website-frameworks=)
# Frameworks
```

## What is a framework

In website development, a framework is a set of pre-written code, tools, and
libraries that help developers build and maintain websites more efficiently.
Frameworks provide a structured foundation, offering reusable code modules,
common design patterns, and guidelines, which help streamline the development
process and promote best practices. They essentially "frame" the development by
managing basic functionalities and allowing developers to focus on the unique
aspects of their projects rather than repetitive tasks.

## Benefits of using a framework

Frameworks provide several benefits in website development:

* **Code Reusability**: Common functions are built-in, which
reduces redundancy.
* **Efficiency**: They allow faster development by eliminating the need
to code every component from scratch.
* **Scalability**: Frameworks provide a solid structure that can grow with the
website.
* **Security**: Many frameworks come with built-in security features and
updates, which help mitigate vulnerabilities.

> ## Popular frameworks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(cm-website-frameworks-list=)
## Popular frameworks
```

Here, we list some commonly used frameworks. They have been
divided into two categories depending upon whether person wants to create a
website using low-code or high-code options.

### No-Code/Low-Code frameworks

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Canva](https://www.canva.com/design-school/resources/how-to-make-website-with-canva-step-by-step-guide)
```
